So let's talk about Amazon Aurora
because the exam is starting to ask you a lot
of question about it.
Now, you don't need deep knowledge on it,
but you need enough high level overview
to understand exactly how it works.
So this is what I'm going to give you in this lecture.
Aurora is going to be a proprietary technology from AWS.
It's not open sourced,
but they made it so it's going to be compatible
with Postgres and MySQL and basically your Aurora database
will have compatible drivers.
That means that if you connect as if you were connecting
to your Postgres or MySQL database, then it will work.
Aurora is very special and I won't go too deep
into the internals, but they made it cloud optimized
and by doing a lot of optimization and smart stuff,
basically they get 5x performance improvements
over MySQL on the RDS or 3x performance of Postgres on RDS.
Not just that, but in many different ways,
they also get more performance improvements.
To me, I've watched it, it's really, really smart
but I won't go into the details of it.
Now Aurora storage automatically grows
and I think this is one of the main features
that is quite awesome.
You start at 10GB, but as you put more data
into your database it grows automatically up to 128TB.
Again, this has to do with how to design it
but the awesome thing is that now as a DB or a SysOps,
you don't need to worry about monitoring your disc.
You just know it will grow automatically with time.
Aurora can have up to 15 read replicas,
and the replication process is going
to be faster than MySQL.
You will see sub 10 ms replica lag typically.
Now if you do failover in Aurora
it was going to be instantaneous,
so it's gonna be much faster
than a failover from Multi-AZ on MySQL RDS.
And because it's cloud-native,
by default you get high availability.
Now, although the cost is a little bit more than RDS,
about 20% more, it is so much more efficient
that at scale it makes a lot more sense for savings.
So let's talk about the aspect that are super important
which is high availability and read scaling.
So Aurora is special because it's going to store six copies
of your data anytime you write anything across 3 AZ.
And so Aurora is made such as it's available,
so it only needs four copy out of six for writes.
So that means that if one AZ is down, you're fine.
And it only needs to have three copy
out of six needed for reads.
So again, that means that it's highly available for reads.
There is some kind of self healing process that happens
which is quite cool, which is that if some data
is corrupted or bad, then it does self healing
with peer-to-peer replication in the backend
and it's quite cool.
And you don't rely on just one volume,
you rely on 100s of volumes.
Again, not something for you to manage.
It happens in the backend, but that means
that you just reduce the risk by so much.
So if you look at it from a diagram perspective
you have 3 AZ and you have a shared storage volume
but it's the logical volume and it does replication,
self healing, and auto expanding,
which is a lot of features.
So if you were to write some data, maybe blue data,
you'll see the six copy of it in three different AZ.
Then if you write some orange data again six copy of it
in different AZ and then as you write more and more data,
it's basically going to go again six copy of it
in three different AZ.
The cool thing is that it goes on different volumes
and it's striped and it works really, really well.
Now we need to know about storage and that that's it.
But you don't actually interface with the storage.
It's just a design that Amazon made and I want
to give it to you as well so you understand
what Aurora takes.
Now, Aurora is like multi-AZ for RDS.
Basically there's only one instance that takes writes.
So there is a master in Aurora
and that's where we'll take writes.
And then if the master doesn't work
the failover will happens
in less than 30 seconds on average.
So it's really, really quick failover.
And on top of the master you can have
up to 15 read replicas all serving reads.
So you can have a lot of them
and this is how you scale your read workload.
And so any of these read replicas can become the master
in case the master fails.
So it's quite different from how RDS works
but by default you only have one master.
The cool thing about these read replicas is
that it supports cross region replication.
So if you look at Aurora on the right hand side of diagram,
this is what you should remember.
One master, multiple read replicas
and the storage is gonna be replicated, self-healing,
auto expanding, little blocks by little blocks.
Now let's have a look at how Aurora is as a cluster.
So this is more around how Aurora works
when you have clients.
How do you interface with all these instances?
So as we said, we have a shared storage volume
which is auto expanding from 10GB to 128TB.
Your master is the only thing
that will write to your storage.
And because the master can change and failover,
what Aurora provides you is what's called a writer endpoint.
So it's a DNS name, a writer endpoint,
and it's always pointing to the master.
So even if the master fails over,
your client still talks to the writer endpoint
and is automatically redirected to the right instance.
Now, as I said before, you also have a lot of read replicas.
What I didn't say is that they can have auto scaling
on top of these read replicas.
So you can have one up to 15 read replicas
and you can set up auto scaling
such as you always have the right number of read replicas.
Now, because you have auto scaling,
it can be really, really hard for your applications
to keep track of where are your read replicas.
What's the URL?
How do I connect to them?
So for it, you have to remember this absolutely
for going for the exam.
There is something called a reader endpoint.
And a reader endpoint has the exact same feature
as a writer endpoint.
It helps with connection load balancing
and it connects automatically to all the read replicas.
So anytime the client connects to the reader endpoints
it will get connected to one of the read replicas
and there will be load balancing done this way.
Make sure, just notice that the load balancing happens
at the connection level, not the statement level.
So this is how it works for Aurora.
Remember writer endpoint, reader endpoint.
Remember auto scaling.
remember shared storage volume that auto expands.
Remember this diagram 'cause once you get it,
you'll understand how Aurora works.
Now if we go deep into the feature
you get a lot of things I already told you.
Automatic failover, backup and recovery,
isolation and security, industry compliance,
push-button scaling by auto scaling,
automated patching with zero downtime.
So it's kind of cool that magic they do in the backend.
Advanced monitoring, routine maintenance,
so all these things are handled for you.
And you also get this feature called backtrack
which is giving you the ability
to restore data at any point of time.
And actually doesn't rely on backups,
it relies on something different.
But you can always say, I want to go back
to yesterday at 4:00 PM and you say, "Oh no,
actually I wanted to do yesterday at 5:00 PM,"
and it will work as well, which is super, super neat.
So that's it for Aurora,
and I will see you in the next lecture.